# Jeff Weinstein on Metrics And Success

Source: Building product at Stripe: craft, metrics, and customer obsession | Jeff Weinstein (Product lead)

## Key passages

### Passage 1
"**Jeff Weinstein** (00:49:45): And so, we're just asking ourselves, "Well, why would someone recommend Atlas to a friend?" I was like, "Well, it would have to accomplish A, B and C activities for them. It would have to get their company, it would have to handle getting their tax ID from the IRS. It'd have to handle all the downstream administrivia." But surely, if they had a bunch of support tickets at the end, they're not going to go tell their friends to use this thing. We could measure all of the intermediate parts, we could measure the success rate and the frequency of incorporation services and we do all those things, but if you looked at the support tickets, there's just no way if you had a support ticket, you would recommend it to a friend. And so, we suggested this metric to ourselves, companies that have no support tickets through the incorporation service."

### Passage 2
"**Lenny Rachitsky** (00:45:33): Let's talk about metrics, going in a different direction. Many people told me I need to ask you about picking metrics and the importance of metrics and how you think about metrics. So let me just maybe start with a question of, just why do you think picking the right metric and why are metrics so important in building successful products?"

### Passage 3
"**Jeff Weinstein** (00:45:52): I somewhat walk around with the belief that the product manager's responsibility is to produce product market fit. And okay, how do you know you have product market fit? Charts that showcase things are going up into the right on one hand, and then tweets on the other. So metrics like quantitative and qualitative, and I really see them as deep siblings and equals, you really need both. It's not oh, OKRs versus something. There are some things you want the texture of the person on video showing how complicated a thing was. And then also, we're trying to make an economically viable system that we can run at large scale and you can't keep all that stuff in your head and need to measure it. And so, I think metrics at their best are a numerical representation of the value we're providing for the customer."

### Passage 4
"**Jeff Weinstein** (00:46:59): One could measure anything. You can just start counting events and log lines. We've made it incredibly cheap to count stuff. And so, now we have this big privilege of choosing what to measure. And I really just try to map it all the way back to, "Well, what was actually the value that we're trying to produce for the customer and can we measure it from their perspective?" Whereas I think it's natural, both because when you work inside of a company, you're just thinking internally, but also the way that the metrics are collected inside your application to be more internal-oriented. How many people logged in? Okay, that's a fine measure, but how many people accomplished what they were trying to do after they logged in, is not just necessarily sitting there as a single event in your database. You have to think about it a bit. Another reason why I spend a lot of time crafting a small number of these metrics is, they force trade-offs and decisions."

### Passage 5
"**Jeff Weinstein** (00:47:56): So we could all sit around all day and say, "Hey, I heard all these customer problems, we should build X, Y, and Z." And another person could absolutely reasonably say, "Well, I heard from these customers, we should build one, two and three." And they're all true. We could have a lot of success in both, but the majority case is that we don't build either and we sit around and argue and bicker and we go slowly. "What are we going to do to naturally, organically every day, orient a larger group of people in the right direction and see if our tactics are generating progress over time for a customer from their perspective?" And metrics on the left and a series of tweets on the right is a pretty great combo."

### Passage 6
"**Jeff Weinstein** (00:51:31): And I just thought, "Okay, well let's just drive that number way up, and let's look at the support tickets aside what people are needing and we'll bake it into the product, and presumably it'll fix it. People will like that more and then tell their friends." And over about 18 months, we took that number from 15% to 85. We basically just flipped it. And you can look at the market share plotted on the same timeframe and it's the same shape. And I think you have to find a measure by which it speaks directly to what the customer wanted, and that if you accidentally leaked your dashboard to them, your customer would be ecstatic to learn that that's what you were measuring the whole time. If we were to showcase the internal Atlas metrics, which we often just screenshot and publish, I think they'd be pretty happy to hear that we were spending all of our time making sure that none of them had support tickets."

### Passage 7
"**Jeff Weinstein** (00:54:47): We look at multiple metrics, but we will optimize around one and you have to use your own judgment to look at some of these countermeasures and pick them. We would also, that would sort of be our overarching metric for a year, but then we would pick specific tactical metrics about how we would accomplish it. So just an example that both is how we solved a problem, but also it's just a style of metric that was useful to us. Of course, some of these support tickets included things like, "I'm waiting to hear back from Atlas about, if they're going to approve my application because Stripe is required for very good reasons to evaluate certain business types, or sanctions, lists and the worldwide products." So there is some, should be incredibly quick, but there is a bit of a review process, and of course if you were not hearing back from us, you would be upset because you're trying to make your company immediately, "This is ridiculous. Let's get back to us quickly.""
